# Exploratory data analysis(EDA)

Based on the EDA upon several datasets, we found differences between human texts and ones, generated by AI, both of a general nature and LLM-specific.

General characteristics:
1. All analyzed language models tend to fill the text with unique words: all pairs show significant differences in unique_ratio.
2. Also, all analyzed models use longer words on average than people. This may mean that LLM tries to avoid repetitions and uses more variative vocabulary in the text to imitate a natural writing style.

Specific observations by models:
1. Some models (PaLM, FLAN-T5) show significant differences in the skew and kurtosis of the text length distribution: human texts show a skew in the distribution towards a decrease in text length, as well as significantly greater variability in the text length distribution (the LLMs more strictly adhere to the specified text volume).
2. PaLM, ChatGPT, and DaVinci models insert significantly more line breaks than humans, what probably reflects a stricter adherence to the division of text into semantic blocks than by humans.

Specific observations by domain
1. The PaLM model in the letters domain (response to the prompt "writing a letter to a US senator") generates letters using the same template and inserts templates for names and addresses in the text in the format '[Here is your address]', which clearly indicates that the text is generated.
2. In the essay domain, there is no clear structure, unlike letters, so generative models write less business-like text and can insert various special characters and emoji.
